This is a continuation of our
lecture on Regular Expressions.
So we're gonna continue
talking about metacharacters,
which we can think of as the grammar,
where the literals are actually the words
in the language that we're
going to be talking about.
So another metacharacter
is actually just the dot.
And so
the dot means it could be any character.
So if you search for the term 9.11,
what that's gonna look for is any
place where it sees a 9, followed by any
possible character followed by an 11.
So it matches all of these
phrases because there's a 9 and
an 11 separated by exactly one character
in all of these different examples.
Another metacharacter is the or
metacharacter.
And so what it can be used is to
combine two different expressions.
The sub expressions
are called alternatives.
So here it's combining the expression
flood, and the expression fire.
And they are the two alternatives.
So we'll match all of these lines
because there's either fire or
flood in every single
line that we see here.
You can include up to any number
of alternatives that you like.
So here it can match flood,
earthquake, hurricane, or cold fire.
So all of these different lines
get matched even though it's
a different literal that's
identifying in every single one.
The alternatives can also be expressions,
regular expressions,
and not just literals.
So for example, what we're searching for
here is the beginning of the line and
then either a capital or lower case good,
or anywhere in the line a [Bb]ad.
So for example, here you see good
at the beginning of the line.
And here you see bad and it doesn't have
to necessarily be at the beginning of
the line, because the alternative here
doesn't have a carrot at the beginning.
An alternative is to include parenthesis
to constrain the alternatives.
So here, we're looking at the beginning
of the line and you have to have
either good or bad lowercase or
uppercase at the beginning of the line.
But in this case, we've now constrained,
even if we're looking for bad,
it has to find it at
the beginning of the line.
If you have a question mark that
follows a parenthesis like this,
it suggests that the indicated
expression is optional.
So here we have a lower case or
a capital W and then we have a period.
And it's optional in
this particular phrase.
So we're looking for George Bush with
potentially the W in the middle, but
it'll match this line.
Because it doesn't necessarily have to
have the W in the middle to be able
to find it.
Something to note is that here we actually
have to escape the character dot, and
that's because dot, it can be viewed as
a metacharacter, and so by adding this
backslash what we've done is said don't
consider this to be a metacharacter,
consider it to be the literal dot.
Some more metacharacters are star and
the plus signs.
So star means repeat any number of
times including none of the item,
and plus means at least one of the item.
So here we are searching for
something between parentheses.
And it can be any character
repeated any number of times.
So that will match everything from
something like this where you have
a phrase in between the parentheses
to something like this where you
just have parentheses with
absolutely nothing in between.
Because the star can include,
including no repetition at all.
Remember the plus sign includes
at least one of the item.
So for example, here we're looking for
at least one number followed
by any number of characters followed
by at least one number again.
So here we see one number followed by
some large number of characters followed
by another number again.
You see this again here.
And so this allows us to look for
any possible combination of numbers that
are separated by something
other than numbers.
We can use the curly brackets as interval
qualifiers to let us specify both
the minimum and the maximum number
of times to match an expression.
So here what we're looking for
is bush, either capital or
lower case.
And at the end debate.
And between what we're looking for
is at least one space.
Following by something that's not a space.
Followed by at least one space, I don't
wanna see that between one and five times.
In other words we wanna see
something like space word space,
up between one and five times.
So that will match all of these because in
this case there are five words that occur
between [Bb]ush, debates.
In this case, there are three words
that occur between Bush and debates,
and so forth.
So as long as there's between one and
five word like objects between the two,
we'll discover it with
this regular expression.
If you use m,n within the curly bracket,
that means at least m times but
not more than n matches.
If you only use one number m,
it means exactly that many matches.
If you use m, that means at least m
matches to that regular expression.
In most implementations of regular
expressions the parentheses
not only limit the scope of
the alternatives provided by this or, but
they can also be used to remember
the text matched by the self expression.
We refer to the matched
text with escaped numbers.
Like escape one, escape two and so forth.
So, for example, here what we're looking
for is a space followed by some,
at least one, but possibly more
characters followed by at least one space
followed by the exact same match
that we saw within the parenthesis.
So for example here we see night,
space, night.
Which will match this part plus a space.
And then a replication of
the exact same phrase.
So that'll happen again
with blah blah blah.
Or so so itchy and so forth.
So that's looking for
repetition of a particular phrase.
The star is greedy, so
it always matches the longest possible
string that satisfies
the regular expression.
So in this case we're starting
at the beginning of a string and
we're looking for
an S followed by some possibly large
number of characters
followed by another s.
And so it's gonna match the entire
phrase here, because it goes for
the longest possible string
that satisfies the expression.
And that's true for all of these phrases,
because they all start with an s and
end with an s.
[SOUND] If we want to make it less greedy,
then what we can do is we can
actually use this question mark to
change the greediness of the star.
So now we start with the S.
Now we follow up with some
smaller number of characters,
it's not going to try to find
the maximum like through the string,
followed by something with
an S at the end of the string.
So in summary,
regular expressions are used in many
different languages, not just in R.
They're composed of literals, that's
the actual text that you're looking for.
And metacharacters which allows
us to look at alternatives,
or look at specific places in a line, or
look at places where there are spaces.
And find classes of characters or words.
Text processing via regular expression is
particularly powerful when you're dealing
with sort of unfriendly sources.
So, sources where the data may
be in free text format, or
in a structure data format.
Where you're trying to just get
an access to a particular phrase.
They're typically used with the functions
grep, grepl, sub, gsub like we've talked
about when we're searching for strings or
trying to do some kind of text
processing to either the variable names or
to the variables themselves.
I'd like to thank Mark Hansen for some
of the lecture material in this lecture.
For Roger Payne for putting it together.